---
layout: post
title: Hellos
date: '2016-06-03 21:00:00'
---
A couple of days back I [wrote a little on goodbyes](/boodbyes).

While May was a month of cheerios, it was also a month of cheery hellos. A contrast for sure.

Hello again Football League football for Grimsby Town. You might have missed that important news. I appreciate you may have been been occupied by other things.

My biggest hello was from the NHS beta team. Over the past month I have taken every chance possible to spend time on and with the NHS beta team and their work before I started “for real”.

Earlier this week Matt Jukes [tweeted](https://twitter.com/jukesie/status/736871616383176704):

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet" data-lang="en"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Has anyone come across a better term than &#39;staff inductions&#39;? God knows &#39;on-boarding&#39; is even worse!</p>&mdash; Matt Jukes (@jukesie) <a href="https://twitter.com/jukesie/status/736871616383176704">May 29, 2016</a></blockquote> <script async src="//platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

It reminded me of when I used to do inductions. People always told me starting somewhere new is daunting. There’s always that “new kid in class” feeling. I’ll admit there’s been times when I have felt the same.

I’ve gone into full time roles before where I’ve had anywhere from five to eleven visits ahead of me starting, as I’ve made sure this is the right thing for me – and I’ve wanted to understand what I am inheriting and having to run with. I want to make sure I am “acclimatised” as much as possible. In “senior roles” that’s easier to wangle. Irrespective of what or where you come into an organisation I couldn’t recommend you spending *some* time with your new gig any more.

It means your starting day is full of “Hello again!”s to recognisable faces. It means inductions are reduced more to “routine” stuff. And you can get on quicker doing the stuff you joined to do quicker.

It also seems a more human approach, reducing an anxiety point to something less stressful.

It’s been a very warm start to my time on NHS beta. On my first day there was a retro, planning, and a show and tell – all things I could take part in having been involved a little ahead of jumping in full time. We’re trying to do things in the open, including regular blogging (a tidy little intro blog post on that is [over here](http://digital.nhs.uk/blogging-isnt-a-pastime-being-published-means-being-accountable)).

The show and tells are regular things (which [Joe blogged about some months back](http://digital.nhs.uk/show-the-thing)) where we are also trying to be open. If you want a taste of what we are doing, we’d try our best to fit you in at our Leeds and London bases. I am sure the warm welcome I have received joining the team will be the same warm welcome you’d receive.

Head over to the NHS beta blog to see what else the team is doing. And maybe get in touch. It’s at [digital.nhs.uk](http://digital.nhs.uk/). It’s feels good to be part of the team.
