---
layout: post
title: Goodbyes
date: '2016-06-01 21:00:00'
---
Last week was a week of goodbyes, too many of them.

I said goodbye, at least for the time being, to some great friends I made working at and for HMRC.

Last week I also said goodbye, for a longer time, to my grandad.

The last lucid conversation I had with my pop was just over a month ago, at [Bassetlaw hospital](http://www.nhs.uk/Services/hospitals/Overview/DefaultView.aspx?id=1089) in Worksop. He wasn't well, but he was in typical mood for my pop, to the point, a bit righteous, stubborn, and frustrated. I told him I had just accepted the chance to work with the team on the beta of the NHS's web service.

"At last, a worthwhile job," he told me. He nodded, doing this little quasi-grunt that showed his agreement, his satisfaction.

We rounded the conversation off, neatly, nothing left in the air. That was a rare thing. I said goodbye, hugged the man who'd brought me up with my nana in my mid-teens, and left to drive home.

A couple of weeks later my mum texted me while I was in a meeting at work, to tell me my pop had been put into end of life care. I didn't know what this meant. I had to look it up while we talked how we could get round a database's limitations. I felt ashamed when I found out. Why didn't I already know what this means? I rearranged my plans for the week so I could see him, for what I thought would be the last time.

I didn't get that chance. My pop passed away just after midnight on the morning I had planned to see him. I felt like I had messed up. I felt I should have gone a day earlier. I thought I had time.

But he might not have been awake when I dropped by. And the last time I did get to have a good chat with him we ended it as neatly as we could have had.

And now he is gone.

It's difficult to share things. You also might think it's weird me even writing this.

Whether it's me telling you about saying goodbye to my pop for the last time or you standing at the front of the room to talk about the work you have done we all have our things we feel awkward about sharing. Some of those awkward moments could be more regular happenings than others for some people.

But talking, sharing, openly, honestly means we can work things through, maybe even have conversations off the back of it, however awkward. It's good to get things straight, to get perspective. Sometimes it helps us draw a line, to collect our thoughts, to take that deep breath. Not dismissing the past, but mindful of it. And move onwards, always onwards.

Onwards.
