---
layout: post
title: The service experience
date: '2019-10-10 12:00:00'
tags: [service design]
---
The doctor prints the prescription.

“There’s two options on this prescription. Both are OK but I’d prefer you have the second option – but the system won’t let me print just that second option. If you explain to the pharmacist they’ll be OK.”

---

The prescription is handed in to the pharmacist. It is explained what the doctor has requested.

A long waiting moment passes.

“The prescribing doctor says you need to get your doctor to write onto this prescription which they prefer, otherwise we’ll give you the first option. You’ll have to go back to the doctor.”

Two months ago the same pharmacy was OK with the doctor’s message being passed on. Now the same pharmacy is not so cool with the message being relayed by voice.

---

At the reception for the GP’s surgery the situation is explained.

“This is happening a lot more. Leave your prescription and come back tomorrow morning. The doctor will have written their instructions down.”

That will be another hour out of the day tomorrow, to travel: There, wait for the prescription to be fulfilled at the pharmacy, and back.

Just accept the first option and put up with the side effects from switching medication? Decisions.

---

It’s 2019 and this is a piece of paper being passed around. A piece of paper which carries a flawed narrative because the system wouldn’t, couldn’t express what the author intended.

---

You know when the system determines your experience? When you are the connector of the network making up for the system’s lack of “handshaking” between its parts?

When the system dictates your experience of the service, eh.
