---
layout: post
title: 2023 run notes, week 2
date: 2023-01-17 18:40:00 +0000
tags:
- run note
- running 2023
- running note
- running

---
## Look back on week commencing Monday 9 January 2023

TL;DR: Planning for a steady week was working well, then scuppered by weekend IBS attack.


#### Runs

Goal: 40km  
Total distance ran: 24.6km (15.4km off goal)  
Number of runs: 4

[Longest run: 10.08km / 53mins 46secs, Monday 9 January](https://www.strava.com/activities/8363811004)

Was ticking along for the week just fine. Had to switch my strengthening session from Thursday to Friday (meaning Friday a day off from running), which gave me four straight days of running (Monday to Thursday). Well poised to have a 15km weekend but ended up with an IBS attack, which meant a wasted weekend. Gah.


#### Bike rides

Goal: 40km  
Total distance ridden: 34km (6km off goal)  
Number of rides: 2

[Longest ride: 20km / 48mins 20secs, Friday 13 January](https://www.strava.com/activities/8383807730)

Again, doing just fine, then IBS weekend.


#### Walks

Goal: 15km  
Total distance tracked walking: 9.58km (5.42km off goal)

Again — again — steady week then hit the weekend. Managed to have a walk to and from Asda on Sunday to see how the stomach was though, small victories.

Total distance: 14.81km 


#### Year goals check in 

Ran so far: 61.1km  
Distance left to run: 1338.8km 


## Looking ahead to week 3

Running goal: 30km  
Take it easy after the weekend. Monday off, then try a small one (3km-ish) on Tuesday. If OK push it to a 7.5km-er on Wednesday. Thursday off. 20km over Friday, Saturday and Sunday.

Biking goal: 50km  
Lower running means upping biking.

Walking goal: 15km  
Get back to having a couple of walks every day. If they total 3km easy peasy.