_drafts/diabetes-notes-number-7.markdown, before:

---
layout: post
title: Diabetes notes, number 6
date: 2020-06-03 06:30:00 +0000
tags:
- diabetes

---
This morning my phone reminded me I need to sort my “three months on blood test”. It’s been nearly three months since my last few diabetes notes, when I documented the days after being told I was “officially” diabetic. I had been told to keep doing what I was doing and see where it goes.

I decided [back then](https://www.ermlikeyeah.com/diabetes-notes-number-5/) I’d also push things a bit, cutting out things like the occasional Toffee Crisp, dates from my morning porridge, little tweaks like wholemeal versions of stuff like pasta whenever possible (and moderate how much I have). I’ve stayed true to that. Despite a leg injury shortly after my last note I’ve been static cycling to help me keep exercising and the last month I have been fully back to running most days (218km in May was a good haul). I’ve become more of a grazer eater and there are some afternoons where I have struggled to focus, and found it’s because I haven’t had a little snack or drink for several hours. Little, often.

A few weeks back I’d done another blood test, albeit one for Thriva not through my doctor’s surgery. It’d been a couple of months of working from home. I’d put on a little (and it is a little) weight, generally I felt OK, but I wondered if the shift had any other effects. As part of that test I also got back results of my haemoglobin A1c levels. Three months back I “scored” 51. A couple of months on I was now at 42. (I’ve been recording the results from all tests [here](https://www.icloud.com/numbers/02wb223nySZ6XmUED4XcJQWzw#blood).) A massive surprise to see it drop so much, completely unexpected. Cause for further optimism.

I was told three months back I’d be referred for a retinal test and a feet check. I’ve heard nothing back yet, but then a few weeks after my appointment with the nurse the coronavirus situation worsened massively. I’m not concerned. It just makes me wonder if there is a growing pile of appointments like mine that will need sorting... whenever they can be.

So now, with this morning’s alert, I am just waiting for the call for me to go in and have my blood taken. When in the current climate? I don’t know. My doctor’s surgery have been really good on a couple of occasions over the last couple of months. An example: My annual asthma check up was due. I got a call from a nurse at the surgery, who checked I was OK, asked how and when I was taking my inhalers, was sorry they were doing it over the phone, but I won’t get out of my peak flow test, it’ll just be later. At least I had the Thriva test, I could afford to have the Thriva test to rest my mind.

In the meantime, keep on keeping on. It seems to be doing the job.

Commit message:

Update from Forestry.io Simon Wilson updated _drafts/diabetes-notes-number-7.markdown

_drafts/diabetes-notes-number-7.markdown, after:

---
layout: post
title: Diabetes notes, number 7
date: 2020-06-12 16:00:00 +0000
tags:
- diabetes

---
Earlier this month [I posted](https://www.ermlikeyeah.com/diabetes-notes-number-6/) I was going to wait for my doctor's surgery to get in touch and in the meantime keep on keeping on.

In the days after publishing that post I recognised an increasing pattern of feeling very spaced out at the end of the working day. I've been having it a bit recently. Maybe it is just because of work, which just intensifies in the afternoon, becoming a more synchronous experience with my teammates, the nudges and interruptions, the task and context switching getting more regular after lunch. Maybe.

Sleep? At worst I have been getting six hours, at best eight hours, usually it is about seven hours. Not _too_ bad.

Maybe it is my diet.
      
Was I skipping lunch? No. Sometimes I was having closer to 2pm than 12pm.

Was I having small or large lunches? Nothing small, but not huge.

Was I having regular sups of drinks through the day? I thought I was. (And I limit myself to two coffees and no more after lunchtime.)

Was I having a little snack around 3:30pm to 4pm? Seemed to be.

I have tried keeping a light record of all of this and looking through my notes I was struggling to see a pattern. 

Last week I had a day when I wasn't really on my Macbook, working through something with print outs, on paper, with pens, on the whiteboards. I would say it was a steady day. And it ended with me feeling pretty spaced out again. I wondered if it was anything to do with my blood sugar levels.

I like to understand with data. What could I do to get that data?

A few people had made me aware of blood glucose monitoring I could do myself. This would mean getting a tracker. A few recommendations for a [FreeStyle Libre](https://www.freestylelibre.co.uk/libre/products/starter-pack.html) (not a Nacho Libre, must remember that) and I ordered a starter kit, a reader and two sensors. You stick a sensor to the back of your arm (a small needle like sensor pokes under your skin), they last for two weeks, you scan the sensor every few hours with the reader (or using an app on your phone), data builds up. This week I started wearing a sensor.

It's too soon to say I have learned much. My blood glucose goes up a bit shortly after eating, nothing too high, but comes back down steadily enough. That seems [normal](https://www.diabetes.co.uk/diabetes_care/blood-sugar-level-ranges.html). I am waiting for a day I feel pretty spaced out again and see what the readings are then. And another one. Maybe it won't be down to my blood sugar levels -- but I am enjoying learning how my body works as I go along.
